README.md, before:

# CFB Poll

A college football ranking system that evaluates FBS teams based on their performance throughout the season. Features a .NET Web API backend and React frontend.

This was created using Claude Code with a lot of guidelines to follow my code style and arch preferences. You could technically call this "vibe-coding", if you were so inclined, but a lot of care was put into making this, even though almost none of the actual code was written by me.

## Table of Contents

- [TODO](#todo)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)
- [Testing](#testing)

## TODO

Last Updated 2/15/2026
- I have only recently started to learn React and this application uses it for the UI. I had Claude create it all following the best practices that I could find online, but I don't know for certain that everything is correct. As I learn more I know I will end up refactoring that code.
- There are more improvements to the UI I plan to implement. They require persistent historical data though, which will require changing my data-caching approach.

## Features

- **Custom Ranking Algorithm**: Evaluates teams based on wins, strength of schedule, and margin of victory
- **Team Details**: Drill into individual teams to see schedule, record breakdowns by location and opponent tier
- **Historical Data**: Access rankings from 2002 to present
- **Interactive UI**: Sortable rankings table with team logos and colors
- **REST API**: Full API with Swagger documentation
- **Caching**: File-based persistent cache to reduce external API calls

## Tech Stack

### Backend
- ASP.NET Core 10.0 Web API
- College Football Data API integration
- Swagger/OpenAPI documentation

### Frontend
- React 19 with TypeScript
- Vite build tooling
- TanStack Query for data fetching
- TanStack Table for sortable tables
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- React Router for navigation

## Project Structure

```
CFBPoll/
├── CFBPoll.sln
├── src/
│   ├── CFBPoll.API/           # ASP.NET Core Web API
│   ├── CFBPoll.Core/          # Shared business logic
│   └── cfbpoll-web/           # React frontend
└── tests/
    ├── CFBPoll.API.Tests/     # API integration tests
    └── CFBPoll.Core.Tests/    # Unit tests
```

## Prerequisites

- [.NET 10.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [Node.js 18+](https://nodejs.org/)
- [College Football Data API Key](https://collegefootballdata.com/key)

## Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/CFBPoll.git
cd CFBPoll
```

### 2. Configure API Key

Create `src/CFBPoll.API/appsettings-private.json`:

```json
{
  "CollegeFootballData": {
    "ApiKey": "your-api-key-here"
  }
}
```

### 3. Install dependencies

```bash
# Backend
dotnet restore

# Frontend
cd src/cfbpoll-web
npm install
```

### 4. Implement Rating Module

The rating module (`src/CFBPoll.Core/Modules/RatingModule.cs`) is not included in the repository. You'll need to create your own implementation of `IRatingModule`:

```csharp
using CFBPoll.Core.Interfaces;
using CFBPoll.Core.Models;

namespace CFBPoll.Core.Modules;

public class RatingModule : IRatingModule
{
    public IDictionary<string, RatingDetails> RateTeams(SeasonData seasonData)
    {
        // Your rating algorithm here
    }
}
```

## Running the Application

### Backend API

```bash
cd src/CFBPoll.API
dotnet run
```

The API runs at `https://localhost:5001` with Swagger UI as the default page.

### Frontend

```bash
cd src/cfbpoll-web
npm run dev
```

The frontend runs at `http://localhost:5173`.

## API Endpoints

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `GET /api/v1/conferences` | Returns FBS conferences |
| `GET /api/v1/rankings?season={season}&week={week}` | Returns ranked teams for the specified week |
| `GET /api/v1/seasons` | Returns available seasons (2002 to present) |
| `GET /api/v1/seasons/{season}/weeks` | Returns available weeks for a season |
| `GET /api/v1/teams/{teamName}?season={season}&week={week}` | Returns team details including schedule and record breakdowns |

## Testing

The project includes 379 unit and integration tests across backend and frontend.

### Running Tests

```bash
# Backend tests (254 tests)
dotnet test

# Run with coverage
dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"

# Frontend tests (125 tests)
cd src/cfbpoll-web
npm test
```

### Coverage Summary

![Backend Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/Backend_Tests-254-blue)
![Frontend Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/Frontend_Tests-125-blue)
![Core Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/Core_Coverage-95%25-brightgreen)
![API Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/API_Coverage-100%25-brightgreen)
![Web Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/Web_Coverage-96%25-brightgreen)

| Project | Line Coverage | Branch Coverage |
|---------|---------------|-----------------|
| CFBPoll.Core | 95% | 97% |
| CFBPoll.API | 100% | 93% |
| cfbpoll-web | 96% | 85% |

**Excluded from coverage:**
- `RatingModule` - Proprietary rating algorithm, not included in the repository. Tests are maintained locally.
- `CFBDataService` - Makes HTTP calls to the external College Football Data API. Better suited for integration tests.
- `Program.cs` - ASP.NET Core startup configuration code.

Commit message:

Add opponent rankings, clickable links, and expandable records to team details
Show opponent rank for top-25 teams in the schedule, make opponent names
clickable links that navigate to their team details page, and add expandable
game lists within record breakdown sections. Includes backend OpponentRank
field on ScheduleGameDTO with mapper lookup from rankings data, and proper
browser history management using useNavigate for back/forward support.

README.md, after:

# CFB Poll

A college football ranking system that evaluates FBS teams based on their performance throughout the season. Features a .NET Web API backend and React frontend.

This was created using Claude Code with a lot of guidelines to follow my code style and arch preferences. You could technically call this "vibe-coding", if you were so inclined, but a lot of care was put into making this, even though almost none of the actual code was written by me.

## Table of Contents

- [TODO](#todo)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)
- [Testing](#testing)

## TODO

Last Updated 2/15/2026
- I have only recently started to learn React and this application uses it for the UI. I had Claude create it all following the best practices that I could find online, but I don't know for certain that everything is correct. As I learn more I know I will end up refactoring that code.
- There are more improvements to the UI I plan to implement. They require persistent historical data though, which will require changing my data-caching approach.

## Features

- **Custom Ranking Algorithm**: Evaluates teams based on wins, strength of schedule, and margin of victory
- **Team Details**: Drill into individual teams to see schedule with opponent rankings, clickable opponent links, and expandable record breakdowns by location and opponent tier
- **Historical Data**: Access rankings from 2002 to present
- **Interactive UI**: Sortable rankings table with team logos and colors
- **REST API**: Full API with Swagger documentation
- **Caching**: File-based persistent cache to reduce external API calls

## Tech Stack

### Backend
- ASP.NET Core 10.0 Web API
- College Football Data API integration
- Swagger/OpenAPI documentation

### Frontend
- React 19 with TypeScript
- Vite build tooling
- TanStack Query for data fetching
- TanStack Table for sortable tables
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- React Router for navigation

## Project Structure

```
CFBPoll/
├── CFBPoll.sln
├── src/
│   ├── CFBPoll.API/           # ASP.NET Core Web API
│   ├── CFBPoll.Core/          # Shared business logic
│   └── cfbpoll-web/           # React frontend
└── tests/
    ├── CFBPoll.API.Tests/     # API integration tests
    └── CFBPoll.Core.Tests/    # Unit tests
```

## Prerequisites

- [.NET 10.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [Node.js 18+](https://nodejs.org/)
- [College Football Data API Key](https://collegefootballdata.com/key)

## Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/CFBPoll.git
cd CFBPoll
```

### 2. Configure API Key

Create `src/CFBPoll.API/appsettings-private.json`:

```json
{
  "CollegeFootballData": {
    "ApiKey": "your-api-key-here"
  }
}
```

### 3. Install dependencies

```bash
# Backend
dotnet restore

# Frontend
cd src/cfbpoll-web
npm install
```

### 4. Implement Rating Module

The rating module (`src/CFBPoll.Core/Modules/RatingModule.cs`) is not included in the repository. You'll need to create your own implementation of `IRatingModule`:

```csharp
using CFBPoll.Core.Interfaces;
using CFBPoll.Core.Models;

namespace CFBPoll.Core.Modules;

public class RatingModule : IRatingModule
{
    public IDictionary<string, RatingDetails> RateTeams(SeasonData seasonData)
    {
        // Your rating algorithm here
    }
}
```

## Running the Application

### Backend API

```bash
cd src/CFBPoll.API
dotnet run
```

The API runs at `https://localhost:5001` with Swagger UI as the default page.

### Frontend

```bash
cd src/cfbpoll-web
npm run dev
```

The frontend runs at `http://localhost:5173`.

## API Endpoints

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `GET /api/v1/conferences` | Returns FBS conferences |
| `GET /api/v1/rankings?season={season}&week={week}` | Returns ranked teams for the specified week |
| `GET /api/v1/seasons` | Returns available seasons (2002 to present) |
| `GET /api/v1/seasons/{season}/weeks` | Returns available weeks for a season |
| `GET /api/v1/teams/{teamName}?season={season}&week={week}` | Returns team details including schedule and record breakdowns |

## Testing

The project includes 392 unit and integration tests across backend and frontend.

### Running Tests

```bash
# Backend tests (257 tests)
dotnet test

# Run with coverage
dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"

# Frontend tests (135 tests)
cd src/cfbpoll-web
npm test
```

### Coverage Summary

![Backend Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/Backend_Tests-257-blue)
![Frontend Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/Frontend_Tests-135-blue)
![Core Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/Core_Coverage-95%25-brightgreen)
![API Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/API_Coverage-100%25-brightgreen)
![Web Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/Web_Coverage-95%25-brightgreen)

| Project | Line Coverage | Branch Coverage |
|---------|---------------|-----------------|
| CFBPoll.Core | 95% | 97% |
| CFBPoll.API | 100% | 93% |
| cfbpoll-web | 95% | 85% |

**Excluded from coverage:**
- `RatingModule` - Proprietary rating algorithm, not included in the repository. Tests are maintained locally.
- `CFBDataService` - Makes HTTP calls to the external College Football Data API. Better suited for integration tests.
- `Program.cs` - ASP.NET Core startup configuration code.
